node-pressure/README.md, before:

# Problem-Pattern 'node-pressure'
![ChartVersion](https://img.shields.io/badge/ChartVersion-1.1.0-informational?style=flat)

## Overview
This chart will deploy a pod running a [script](files/script.sh) that fills up the hosts memory using `stress-ng`.\
By default we will fill up to 16GB of memory (`--vm-bytes`) with a single worker (`--vm`). This can be adjusted in [script.sh](files/script.sh) if needed. 

All components will be deployed to the specified `--namespace` in the `helm upgrade --install` command.

### Use-Case
In this demo we are allocating memory on the node to the point where the OS will get into a out-of-memory (OOM) situation. The kernel will kill the workload as it's identified as the problem source automatically.\
The process will be spawned over and over again and will cause a continuous oom-kill, respawn loop. This behaviour can potentially raise an alert if the workload is monitored.

```shell
$ kubectl describe node -l demo=node-pressure
[...]
Events:
Type     Reason      Age                     From            Message
Warning  SystemOOM   3m57s                   kubelet         System OOM encountered, victim process: stress-ng-vm, pid: 3103923
Warning  OOMKilling  3m56s                   kernel-monitor  Out of memory: Killed process 3103923 (stress-ng-vm) total-vm:15791416kB, anon-rss:14369596kB, file-rss:4kB, shmem-rss:36kB, UID:0 pgtables:28184kB oom_score_adj:1000
Warning  SystemOOM   2m13s (x16 over 3m50s)  kubelet         (combined from similar events): System OOM encountered, victim process: stress-ng-vm, pid: 3106306
Warning  OOMKilling  2m13s (x16 over 3m50s)  kernel-monitor  (combined from similar events): Out of memory: Killed process 3106306 (stress-ng-vm) total-vm:15791416kB, anon-rss:14360328kB, file-rss:4kB, shmem-rss:36kB, UID:0 pgtables:28168kB oom_score_adj:1000
  ```

## Installation
Simply run a `helm upgrade` command from the root of this repository:
```shell
helm upgrade --install node-pressure ./node-pressure --namespace node-pressure --create-namespace
```

## Removal
Helm uninstall will get rid of everything but the namespaces. Thus we need to issue a kubectl delete manually to finish the cleanup.
> [!NOTE]  
> The `faultInjection.namespace` will be left regardless. It is used by many of our charts, so we will not delete it.\
> Please remove it manually when you are sure it's not needed anymore. 
```shell
helm uninstall node-pressure --namespace node-pressure
kubectl delete namespace node-pressure
```

## Dependency
We are using the `stress-ng` tool to cause memory pressure on the host. More details on the usage of this tool can be found in [Ubuntu Wiki](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/stress-ng) or on GitHub.

- [GitHub - ColinIanKing/stress-ng](https://github.com/ColinIanKing/stress-ng)

Commit message:

K8S-10065: update charts to 1.2.0 for rollout (#10)
* K8S-10065: exceeded-quota 1.2.0, switched to using busybox, updated cron schedule, added nameOverride, updated ResourceQuota
* K8S-10065: frequent-restarts 1.2.0, added necessary ingress controller configurations, added nameOverride, updated CronJob
* K8S-10065: node-pressure 1.2.0, improved naming, added nameOverride, documented behaviour for EKS & AKS in README.md
* K8S-10065: pending-pod 1.2.0, added nameOverride, updated schedule and replicas, added limits
* K8S-10065: pvc-out-of-space 1.2.0, added nameOverride, parameterized registry name
* K8S-10065: terminating-pod 1.2.0, fixed patch cronjob, added nameOverride, updated schedules, updated resource naming to be more consistent across the board
* K8S-10065: reformat table in README.md

node-pressure/README.md, after:

# Problem-Pattern 'node-pressure'
![ChartVersion](https://img.shields.io/badge/ChartVersion-1.2.0-informational?style=flat)

## Overview
This chart will deploy a pod running a [script](files/script.sh) that fills up the hosts memory using `stress-ng`.\
By default we will fill up to 16GB of memory (`--vm-bytes`) with a single worker (`--vm`). This can be adjusted in [script.sh](files/script.sh) if needed. 

All components will be deployed to the specified `--namespace` in the `helm upgrade --install` command.

### Use-Case
In this demo we are allocating memory on the node to the point where the OS will get into a out-of-memory (OOM) situation. The reaction is then dependent on the Kubernetes flavor.\
We have tested this on AKS and EKS and have noticed slightly different behaviours. This can potentially raise an alert if the workload is monitored.
#### AKS Cluster - Example
The kernel will kill the workload as it's identified as the problem source automatically.\
The process will be spawned over and over again and will cause a continuous oom-kill, respawn loop. 

```shell
$ kubectl describe node -l demo=node-pressure
[...]
Events:
Type     Reason      Age                     From            Message
Warning  SystemOOM   3m57s                   kubelet         System OOM encountered, victim process: stress-ng-vm, pid: 3103923
Warning  OOMKilling  3m56s                   kernel-monitor  Out of memory: Killed process 3103923 (stress-ng-vm) total-vm:15791416kB, anon-rss:14369596kB, file-rss:4kB, shmem-rss:36kB, UID:0 pgtables:28184kB oom_score_adj:1000
Warning  SystemOOM   2m13s (x16 over 3m50s)  kubelet         (combined from similar events): System OOM encountered, victim process: stress-ng-vm, pid: 3106306
Warning  OOMKilling  2m13s (x16 over 3m50s)  kernel-monitor  (combined from similar events): Out of memory: Killed process 3106306 (stress-ng-vm) total-vm:15791416kB, anon-rss:14360328kB, file-rss:4kB, shmem-rss:36kB, UID:0 pgtables:28168kB oom_score_adj:1000
```
#### EKS cluster - Example
The node's `MemoryPressure` condition will be set to `True` and a taint is set automatically: `node.kubernetes.io/memory-pressure:NoSchedule`\
Theoretically this prevents any further scheduling until the unhealthy status is resolved. We are queueing our workload nonetheless by actively tolerating the taint for our workload.\
Once the node has recovered itself, the condition will be set to `False` and the taint is removed. Our workload is scheduled and will put the node under pressure again.
```shell
$ kubectl describe node -l demo=node-pressure
[...]
Events:
Type     Reason                     Age                From     Message
  ----     ------                     ----               ----     -------
Normal   NodeHasSufficientMemory    10m (x5 over 46d)  kubelet  Node <DEDUCTED>.eu-central-1.compute.internal status is now: NodeHasSufficientMemory
Warning  EvictionThresholdMet       85s (x4 over 27m)  kubelet  Attempting to reclaim memory
Normal   NodeHasInsufficientMemory  75s (x4 over 26m)  kubelet  Node <DEDUCTED>.eu-central-1.compute.internal status is now: NodeHasInsufficientMemory
```

## Installation
Simply run a `helm upgrade` command from the root of this repository:
```shell
helm upgrade --install node-pressure ./node-pressure --namespace node-pressure --create-namespace
```

## Removal
Helm uninstall will get rid of everything but the namespaces. Thus we need to issue a kubectl delete manually to finish the cleanup.
> [!NOTE]  
> The `faultInjection.namespace` will be left regardless. It is used by many of our charts, so we will not delete it.\
> Please remove it manually when you are sure it's not needed anymore. 
```shell
helm uninstall node-pressure --namespace node-pressure
kubectl delete namespace node-pressure
```

## Dependency
We are using the `stress-ng` tool to cause memory pressure on the host. More details on the usage of this tool can be found in [Ubuntu Wiki](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Reference/stress-ng) or on GitHub.

- [GitHub - ColinIanKing/stress-ng](https://github.com/ColinIanKing/stress-ng)
